Now you can clearly see
that by my enthusiasm by ES6 and promises
is that I would love to code absolutely everything in that,
however the reality is that there is still a lot
of Java script either native browser APIs
or existing libraries that you're using
that are all callback based.
Now some really nice libraries are changing
where the both returner promise
as well as still accept a callback for older legacy code.
But if you are in the situation where
you are only in callback
and you want to use promises
I'm going to show you how to promisify an existing function.
Now there's libraries out there
that will do this for you,
but it's actually very simple to be able
to promisify it yourself.
So for my example I'm going to be using
navigator.geolocation to get the coordinates
of where I am right now.
And that's a bit of an older API
that uses a callback based function.
So here's how we do it right now.
We'll say navigator.geolocation.getcurrentposition
and what happens is that it takes two arguments,
a success function and a error function,
so what we'll do here is we'll say
function and that will give us our position.
And then here we have a function
which will give us the error.
And then inside of here we can console.log it worked.
And here we can say it failed.
And here we'll console.log the position.
And down here we'll console log the error.
Alright lets take a look at what this all looks like.
So I give this a refresh.
It's gonna ask us can we have your location.
And I click allow and it takes a second or two
depending on how quick the geo location is working.
There we go.
It says it worked.
So the success function ran.
And then it gives us the position and the coordinates
of everything right now.
Now if I were to refresh that
and block it it's immediately going to hit the failed one.
That's great, but that's callback based.
So how can we promisify this into our own function.
So let's comment that out.
So we're going to make a function
called get current position.
And I always like to name them as the same
as the method was, so it shows me that it's the version.
Or some people will write promisified current position.
Whatever you prefer.
And then from that we're going
to return a new promise, right.
And then the promise will have a resolve and a reject.
We'll use an arrow function there.
And then inside of that we just do our work.
So we'll say navigator.geolocation.getcurrentposition.
Now here's the question, what do we pass
for our success function?
Resolve.
What do we pass for our failure function?
Reject.
Right?
So if it is properly done resolve will send
back that position data to us.
And if something happens reject will reject it
and throw an error with whatever error gets passed here.
So that's it and then we can go ahead
and use it so we'll need to make ourselves
an async function called go.
And again the reason being I'm not just doing
this out in the open like I did with this code right here is
because you can not await things out in the open.
You must be inside of an async function.
And let's just run that on page load go.
Then I'll say const position is equal
to await get current position.
And that's it.
We should be able to console.log
the position right after that.
Right, so now there's no callback
we simply use our await keyword
and we click allow
and then after a couple seconds
we should see that data come back, there we go.
Data comes back immediately.
And you can see that this is working
because if up here you were to console log
starting
and down here you were going to say finished
you'll see the starting is done immediately,
now we're awaiting.
And then eventually once it's done, there we go,
then the position comes and then
the finished console log actually runs itself.
Last thing I want to do is get current position
actually takes some arguments.
Sometimes you can set things like how accurate
you want to be depending on how much battery life
the person has and what not.
So in our case we'll use a rest to capture
all those arguments and then we'll
use a spread to pass in spread into those arguments
before resolve and reject that gets passed in there.
And now if I refresh it, allow it,
it still works just as we want,
but if some were to pass us with
an options object inside of there
those would get passed along no problem.
So that's promisifying without any sort of library.
If you do want to library you can check out ES6-promisify,
or if you're using Node there's even
a built in utility in the util package
that comes baked right in with Node.